**SOFTWARE LICENSE AGREEMENT**

**FOR NON-COMMERCIAL USE**

This Software License Agreement (this “**Agreement**”) is made between you (“**You**,” “**Your**,” or “**Licensee**”) and 
The Jackson Laboratory (“**Licensor**”). This Agreement grants to You a license to the Licensed Software subject to Your 
acceptance of all the terms and conditions contained in this Agreement. Please read the terms and conditions carefully. 
Your access and use of the Licensed Software shall be deemed your acceptance of this Agreement and the terms and conditions 
contained herein. If You do not agree to these terms, Licensor is unwilling to grant you the license contained in this 
Agreement and You should not access or use the Licensed Software.

**1. LICENSE**

1.1 Grant. Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, Licensor hereby grants to Licensee a worldwide, 
royalty-free, non-exclusive, non-transferable, non-sublicensable license to download, copy, display, modify and use the 
Licensed Software for Non-Commercial purposes only. “**Licensed Software**” means the current version of the software 
made available to You via Licensor’s website or git-hub and requiring your acceptance of the terms and conditions of this 
Agreement as a condition of use. “**Non-Commercial**” means internal academic or other scholarly research which (a) is 
not undertaken for profit, or (b) is not intended to produce works, services, or data for commercial use, or (c) is 
neither conducted, nor funded, by a person or an entity engaged in the commercial use, application or exploitation of 
works similar to the Licensed Software.

1.2 License Limitations. Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to confer any rights upon Licensee except as 
expressly granted herein. Licensee may not use or exploit the Licensed Software other than expressly permitted by this 
Agreement. Licensee agrees that it will use the Licensed Software, and any modifications, improvements, or derivatives 
to the Licensed Software that the Licensee may create (collectively, “Improvements”) solely for internal, non-commercial 
purposes and shall not distribute or transfer the Licensed Software or Improvements to any person or third parties without 
prior written permission of Licensor. Use of the Licensed Software under this Agreement is restricted to non-commercial 
purposes. Commercial use of the Licensed Software requires a separately executed written license agreement. If You are 
interested in commercial use of the Licensed Software, please contact the Licensor.  Licensee acknowledges that Licensor 
reserves the right to offer to Licensee or any third party a license for commercial use and distribution of the Licensed 
Software on terms and conditions different than those contained in this Agreement.

**2. OWNERSHIP OF INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY**

2.1 Ownership Rights. Except for the limited license rights expressly granted to Licensee under this Agreement, Licensee 
acknowledges that all right, title and interest in and to the Licensed Software and all intellectual property rights 
therein shall remain with Licensor or its licensors, as applicable. The Licensee agrees that any Improvements made by 
Licensee shall be subject to the same terms and conditions as the Licensed Software. Licensee agrees not to assert a 
claim of infringement in Licensee copyrights in Improvements in the event the Licensor prepares substantially similar 
modifications or derivative works. The Licensee agrees to use his/her reasonable best efforts to protect the contents of 
the Licensed Software and to prevent unauthorized disclosure by its agents, officers, employees, and consultants. If the 
Licensee receives a request to furnish all or any portion of the Licensed Software to a third party, Licensee will not 
fulfill such a request but will refer the third party to the Licensor’s web page or git-hub page so that the third party's 
use of this Licensed Software will be subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement. Notwithstanding the above, 
Licensee may disclose any Improvements that do not involve disclosure of the Licensed Software.

**3. DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY AND LIMITATION OF LIABILITY**

3.1 Disclaimer of Warranty. LICENSOR PROVIDES THE LICENSED SOFTWARE ON A NO-FEE BASIS “AS IS” WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY 
KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED. LICENSOR EXPRESSLY DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, INCLUDING ANY WARRANTY 
OF MERCHANTABILITY, TITLE, SECURITY, ACCURACY, NON-INFRINGEMENT OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

3.2  Limitation of Liability.  LICENSEE ASSUMES FULL RESPONSIBILITY AND RISK FOR ANY LOSS RESULTING FROM LICENSEE’s 
DOWNLOADING AND USE OF THE LICENSED SOFTWARE. IN NO EVENT SHALL LICENSOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER 
LIABILITY, HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, ARISING FROM THE LICENSED SOFTWARE OR LICENSEE’S USE OF THE 
LICENSED SOFTWARE, REGARDLESS OF WHETHER LICENSOR IS ADVISED, OR HAS OTHER REASON TO KNOW, OR IN FACT KNOWS, OF THE 
POSSIBILITY OF THE FOREGOING.

3.3  Acknowledgement. Without limiting the generality of Sections 3.1 and 3.2, Licensee acknowledges that the Licensed 
Software is provided as an information resource only and should not be relied on for any diagnostic or treatment purposes.

**4. TERM AND TERMINATION**

4.1 Term. This Agreement commences on the date Licensee accesses the Licensed Software and will continue until terminated 
in accordance with Section 4.2.

4.2  Termination. If Licensee breaches any provision hereunder, or otherwise engages in any unauthorized use of the 
Licensed Software, Licensor may terminate this Agreement immediately. Licensee may terminate this Agreement at any time 
upon written notice to Licensor. Upon termination, the license granted hereunder will terminate and Licensee will 
immediately cease using the Licensed Software and destroy all copies of the Licensed Software in its possession. Licensee 
will certify in writing that it has complied with the foregoing obligation.

**5. MISCELLANEOUS**

5.1  Future Updates. Use of the Licensed Software under this Agreement is subject to the terms and conditions contained 
herein. New or updated software may require additional or revised terms of use. Licensor will provide notice of and make 
available to Licensee any such revised terms.

5.2  Entire Agreement. This Agreement, including any Attachments hereto, constitutes the sole and entire agreement between 
the parties as to the subject matter set forth herein and supersedes are previous license agreements, understandings, or 
arrangements between the parties relating to such subject matter.

5.2 Governing Law. This Agreement shall be construed, governed, interpreted and applied in accordance with the internal 
laws of the State of Maine, U.S.A., without regard to conflict of laws principles. The parties agree that any disputes 
between them may be heard only in the state or federal courts in the State of Maine, and the parties hereby consent to 
venue and jurisdiction in those courts.
